README.md, before:

<p align="center" bgcolor="#F6E26A">
    <img src="./assets/3pio_logo_wide.jpg" width="1024" height="240" />
</p>

# 3pio - A context-optimized test runner for coding agents

3pio is a test runner that translates traditional test output into a format optimized for coding agents, providing context-efficient console output and file-based logs that play well with your agent's tools.


## Why?

When coding agents use testing tools designed for humans they sometimes get lost or unnecessarily re-run the same tests over and over wasting time and context space. In some cases this can prevent the agent from moving forward altogether.

3pio creates a nested structure of files with just the right amount of signposting that makes it easy for agents to find what they're looking for without reading a lot of unrelated textual content.

Using 3pio, your agent knows how to find the information it needs to know, and it can revisit the results over and over. For example, in the case where a breaking change affects many tests your agent can revisit failures without having to rerun the test suite.


## Features

- Zero-config, prefix your test command with `3pio` to use, e.g. `3pio go test`
- Supports large test suites. Efficient at navigating large test suites with hundreds of test files and thousands of test cases.


## Installation

Copy-paste this to your agent:

```
Hi! Your dev would like you to install and use `3pio`, a test runner designed for you.

Install 3pio via the package manager that best fits with their project or use case:

- Python: `pip install threepio_test_runner`
- npm: `npm install -g @heyzk/3pio`
- pnpm: `pnpm install -g @heyzk/3pio`
- yarn: `yarn global add @heyzk/3pio`
- Go, Rust: homebrew: `brew tap zk/3pio && brew install 3pio`

After installation, run `3pio --help` for context and usage.
```

Consider adding the following to your CLAUDE.md / AGENTS.md / GEMINI.md, etc.
```bash
When running tests use `3pio` by prefixing your test commands with `3pio`. Before using 3pio for the first time run `3pio --help` to understand how to use the tool.
```


## Usage

Tell your agent to prefix any test command with `3pio`, works with any flags or arguments.

```bash
$ 3pio npm test
$ 3pio npx vitest -- ./path/to/test/file.test.js
$ 3pio npx mocha -- ./test/**/*.spec.js
$ 3pio npx cypress run --headless --spec cypress/e2e/sample.cy.js

$ 3pio go test ./...
---
current_time: 2025-09-18T07:57:30-10:00
cwd: /Users/edie/code/3pio
test_command: `go test ./...`
trun_dir: .3pio/runs/20250918T075730-stoic-janeway
full_report: $trun_dir/test-run.md
---

Test execution starting, no output until test results.

FAIL $trun_dir/reports/github_com_zk_3pio_internal_runner/index.md

Test failures! This is madness!
Results:     8 passed, 1 failed, 2 skipped, 11 total
Total time:  61.394s
Test execution failed: test command failed: exit status 1
```

Console output is focused on just which tests failed and provides path information on how to find out more.

## Examples

```markdown
Run tests using 3pio and invesgitate root causes of any failures. Report back.
```

### Understanding test failures

```bash
> Summarize all test failures from the last test run

⏺ Read(.3pio/runs/20250913T204935-batty-spock/reports/_test_system_mcp_tools_scroll_test_js/mcp_tool_scro
      ll/core_functionality/index.md)
  ⎿  Read 41 lines (ctrl+o to expand)

⏺ Read(.3pio/runs/20250913T204935-batty-spock/reports/_test_system_mcp_tools_scroll_test_js/mcp_tool_scro
      ll/tool_interactions/index.md)
  ⎿  Read 38 lines (ctrl+o to expand)

⏺ Read(.3pio/runs/20250913T204935-batty-spock/reports/_test_system_mcp_tools_scroll_test_js/mcp_tool_scro
      ll/smooth_scrolling_behavior/index.md)
  ⎿  Read 28 lines (ctrl+o to expand)

⏺ Summary of All Test Failures from Last Test Run

  Test Results Overview: 5 failures across 4 test groups

  ---
  ❌ Core Functionality (2 failures)

  1. "should scroll to coordinates" (7.40s)
    - Error: expect(received).toBeGreaterThan(expected) // Expected: > 0, Received: 0
    - Issue: Event collection not capturing scroll events (0 events found)
    - Location: scroll.test.js:80:35
  2. "should capture DOM mutation events during scroll" (6.72s)
    - Error: expect(received).toBeGreaterThan(expected) // Expected: > 0, Received: 0
    - Issue: DOM mutation events not being captured (0 events found)
    - Location: scroll.test.js:187:37

  ---
  ❌ Error Handling (1 failure)

  3. "should fail with invalid selector" (6.25s)
    - Error: expect(received).toContain(expected) // Expected substring: "Element not found", Received:
   "Batch execution failed"
    - Issue: Error message propagation - correct failure detected but wrong error text
    - Location: scroll.test.js:198:28
    - Status: ✅ PARTIALLY FIXED - Now correctly returns success: false

  ---
  ❌ Tool Interactions (1 failure)

  4. "should work with getPageState to verify scroll position" (6.72s)
    - Error: MCP error -32602: Invalid arguments for tool getPageState: Required object parameter
  undefined
    - Issue: Parameter validation - getPageState expects object parameter but receives undefined
    - Location: scroll.test.js:346:27
    - Status: ✅ ALREADY FIXED - This is the getPageState schema issue I addressed

  ---
  ❌ Smooth Scrolling Behavior (1 failure)

  5. "should capture intermediate scroll positions during smooth scroll" (7.74s)
    - Error: expect(received).toBeGreaterThan(expected) // Expected: > 1, Received: 1
    - Issue: Event collection not capturing multiple intermediate scroll events
    - Location: scroll.test.js:412:35

  ---
  Failure Pattern Analysis

  ✅ SUCCESS: My fixes resolved the critical success/failure propagation issue
  - Tests now correctly return success: false for failures
  - Parameter validation issues are resolved

  🔧 REMAINING ISSUES: All related to event collection mechanism
  - 4 out of 5 failures are event collection problems (expecting > 0 events, receiving 0)
  - 1 failure is error message detail propagation

  📊 IMPACT:
  - Critical system bugs: ✅ FIXED
  - Event collection: ❌ Needs investigation (affects scroll events, DOM mutations, smooth scroll
  tracking)
```


### Creating investigation checklists for large test failures

```bash
> Create a checklist to investigate the test failures. Group by likely root cause.

⏺ Read(.3pio/runs/20250914T081234-wonky-picard/test-run.md)
  ⎿  Read 45 lines (ctrl+o to expand)

⏺ Read(.3pio/runs/20250914T081234-wonky-picard/reports/src_api_test_js/index.md)
  ⎿  Read 89 lines (ctrl+o to expand)

⏺ Read(.3pio/runs/20250914T081234-wonky-picard/reports/src_auth_test_js/index.md)
  ⎿  Read 67 lines (ctrl+o to expand)

⏺ Test Failure Investigation Checklist

  Overview: 47 failures across 12 test files

  ---
  ## Priority 1: Database Connection Issues (23 failures)

  Affected files:
  - src/api.test.js (8 failures)
  - src/models.test.js (7 failures)
  - src/integration.test.js (8 failures)

  ☐ Check database connection string in test environment
  ☐ Verify test database is running and accessible
  ☐ Check for recent schema migrations not applied to test DB
  ☐ Review database pool settings for test environment
  ☐ Check if database teardown is happening properly between tests

  ---
  ## Priority 2: Authentication/Token Issues (15 failures)

  Affected files:
  - src/auth.test.js (9 failures)
  - src/middleware.test.js (6 failures)

  ☐ Verify JWT secret is set in test environment
  ☐ Check token expiration settings
  ☐ Review recent changes to auth middleware
  ☐ Ensure mock auth is properly configured
  ☐ Check for timing issues with token validation

  ---
  ## Priority 3: External Service Mocking (9 failures)

  Affected files:
  - src/services/email.test.js (4 failures)
  - src/services/payment.test.js (3 failures)
  - src/webhooks.test.js (2 failures)

  ☐ Verify all external service mocks are initialized
  ☐ Check if API keys are mocked correctly
  ☐ Review nock/msw interceptors for completeness
  ☐ Ensure cleanup happens between test runs

  ---
  ## Investigation Order:
  1. Start with database issues (likely root cause for majority)
  2. Fix auth after DB (may depend on DB being fixed)
  3. Address mocking issues last (independent failures)

  ## Quick wins:
  - Database issues might fix 23/47 failures (49%)
  - Auth fix could resolve another 15/47 (32%)
  - Together: potential 81% reduction in failures
```

3pio's persistent reports let your agent analyze patterns across many failures without overwhelming context. The agent can create actionable investigation plans and revisit specific failures as needed.


### Test duration by file / group

```bash
> Give me the durations by test group

⏺ Read(.3pio/runs/20250913T204935-batty-spock/reports/_test_system_mcp_tools_scroll_test_js/index.md)
  ⎿  Read 23 lines (ctrl+o to expand)

⏺ Read(.3pio/runs/20250913T204935-batty-spock/reports/_test_system_mcp_tools_scroll_test_js/mcp_tool_scro
      ll/index.md)
  ⎿  Read 29 lines (ctrl+o to expand)

⏺ Here are the test durations by test group:

  Test Group Durations

  | Status | Test Group                | Tests              | Duration |
  |--------|---------------------------|--------------------|----------|
  | ❌ FAIL | Core Functionality        | 4 passed, 2 failed | 111.1s   |
  | ❌ FAIL | Error Handling            | 2 passed, 1 failed | 69.7s    |
  | ✅ PASS | Consistency               | 2 passed           | 50.6s    |
  | ❌ FAIL | Tool Interactions         | 2 passed, 1 failed | 36.0s    |
  | ✅ PASS | Scrollable Containers     | 1 passed           | 14.5s    |
  | ❌ FAIL | Smooth Scrolling Behavior | 1 failed           | 7.7s     |

  Total Duration: 111.3s (~1 minute 51 seconds)

  Key Observations:
  - Core Functionality took the longest at 111.1s but had 4 passing tests
  - Error Handling (where I made my fixes) took 69.7s with 2 passing tests
  - Consistency and Scrollable Containers groups are fully passing
  - The groups with longer durations generally had more passing tests, suggesting the time is spent on
  successful test execution rather than just timeouts
```


## How it works

3pio injects a custom reporter into the provided test command `npm test` -> `npm test --reporter /custom/jest/reporter.js`. This reporter sends events back to the main process which are analyzed, transformed, and written to the filesystem as a navigable tree of test information.

**Note:** 3pio writes its files to project root directory at `.3pio/`, which you can safely add to your `.gitignore`.


## Supported Test Runners

| Language | Runner | Example invocation (prefix with `3pio`) |
|---|---|---|
| JS/TS | Jest | `3pio npm test` · `3pio npx jest` |
| JS/TS | Vitest (v3+) | `3pio npx vitest run` · `3pio pnpm vitest run` |
| JS/TS | Mocha | `3pio npx mocha -- ./test/**/*.spec.js` |
| JS/TS | Cypress | `3pio npx cypress run --headless` |
| Python | pytest | `3pio pytest` · `3pio python -m pytest` |
| Go | go test (>=1.10) | `3pio go test ./...` |
| Rust | cargo test | `3pio cargo test` |
| Rust | cargo nextest | `3pio cargo nextest run` |


## Limitations

1. **Report Directory Location**: The `.3pio` directory is created in the current working directory. Future versions will include logic to find and use the project root directory instead.

2. **Watch Mode**: 3pio doesn't support watch mode for test runners. When it detects commands that would normally run in watch mode (e.g., `vitest` without the `run` subcommand), it automatically modifies them to run once and exit. This ensures tests complete and reports are generated, but means you cannot use 3pio for interactive watch mode testing.

3. **Dev tool, not CI tool**: 3pio is designed to be used at dev time by your agent. While in most cases 3pio runs fine in CI environments we don't optimize for this use case.


## Future work

- All the test runners
- Improve output context efficiency


## License

MIT

Commit message:

test(ci-macos): stabilize multi-package failure test by capturing stderr via CombinedOutput and forcing go -p=1

README.md, after:

<p align="center" bgcolor="#F6E26A">
    <img src="./assets/3pio_logo_wide.jpg" width="1024" height="240" />
</p>

# 3pio - A context-optimized test runner for coding agents

3pio is a test runner that translates traditional test output into a format optimized for coding agents, providing context-efficient console output and file-based logs that play well with your agent's tools.

Instead of introducing a new testing framework, 3pio works with your existing tests and test runners. All you do is tell your agent to prefix your existing test command with `3pio`


## Why?

When coding agents use testing tools designed for humans they sometimes get lost or unnecessarily re-run the same tests over and over wasting time and context space. In some cases this can prevent the agent from moving forward altogether.

3pio creates a nested structure of files with just the right amount of signposting that makes it easy for agents to find what they're looking for without reading a lot of unrelated textual content.

Using 3pio, your agent knows how to find the information it needs to know, and it can revisit the results over and over. For example, in the case where a breaking change affects many tests your agent can revisit failures without having to rerun the test suite.


## Features

- Zero-config, prefix your test command with `3pio` to use, e.g. `3pio go test`
- Supports large test suites. Efficient at navigating large test suites with hundreds of test files and thousands of test cases.


## Installation

Copy-paste this to your agent:

```
Hi! Your dev would like you to install and use `3pio`, a test runner designed for you.

Install 3pio via the package manager that best fits with their project or use case:

- Python: `pip install threepio_test_runner`
- npm: `npm install -g @heyzk/3pio`
- pnpm: `pnpm install -g @heyzk/3pio`
- yarn: `yarn global add @heyzk/3pio`
- Go, Rust: homebrew: `brew tap zk/3pio && brew install 3pio`

After installation, run `3pio --help` for context and usage.
```

Consider adding the following to your CLAUDE.md / AGENTS.md / GEMINI.md, etc.
```bash
When running tests use `3pio` by prefixing your test commands with `3pio`. Before using 3pio for the first time run `3pio --help` to understand how to use the tool.
```


## Usage

Tell your agent to prefix any test command with `3pio`, works with any flags or arguments.

```bash
$ 3pio npm test
$ 3pio npx vitest -- ./path/to/test/file.test.js
$ 3pio npx mocha -- ./test/**/*.spec.js
$ 3pio npx cypress run --headless --spec cypress/e2e/sample.cy.js

$ 3pio go test ./...
---
current_time: 2025-09-18T07:57:30-10:00
cwd: /Users/edie/code/3pio
test_command: `go test ./...`
trun_dir: .3pio/runs/20250918T075730-stoic-janeway
full_report: $trun_dir/test-run.md
---

Test execution starting, no output until test results.

FAIL $trun_dir/reports/github_com_zk_3pio_internal_runner/index.md

Test failures! This is madness!
Results:     8 passed, 1 failed, 2 skipped, 11 total
Total time:  61.394s
Test execution failed: test command failed: exit status 1
```

Console output is focused on just which tests failed and provides path information on how to find out more.

## Examples

```markdown
Run tests using 3pio and invesgitate root causes of any failures. Report back.
```

### Understanding test failures

```bash
> Summarize all test failures from the last test run

⏺ Read(.3pio/runs/20250913T204935-batty-spock/reports/_test_system_mcp_tools_scroll_test_js/mcp_tool_scro
      ll/core_functionality/index.md)
  ⎿  Read 41 lines (ctrl+o to expand)

⏺ Read(.3pio/runs/20250913T204935-batty-spock/reports/_test_system_mcp_tools_scroll_test_js/mcp_tool_scro
      ll/tool_interactions/index.md)
  ⎿  Read 38 lines (ctrl+o to expand)

⏺ Read(.3pio/runs/20250913T204935-batty-spock/reports/_test_system_mcp_tools_scroll_test_js/mcp_tool_scro
      ll/smooth_scrolling_behavior/index.md)
  ⎿  Read 28 lines (ctrl+o to expand)

⏺ Summary of All Test Failures from Last Test Run

  Test Results Overview: 5 failures across 4 test groups

  ---
  ❌ Core Functionality (2 failures)

  1. "should scroll to coordinates" (7.40s)
    - Error: expect(received).toBeGreaterThan(expected) // Expected: > 0, Received: 0
    - Issue: Event collection not capturing scroll events (0 events found)
    - Location: scroll.test.js:80:35
  2. "should capture DOM mutation events during scroll" (6.72s)
    - Error: expect(received).toBeGreaterThan(expected) // Expected: > 0, Received: 0
    - Issue: DOM mutation events not being captured (0 events found)
    - Location: scroll.test.js:187:37

  ---
  ❌ Error Handling (1 failure)

  3. "should fail with invalid selector" (6.25s)
    - Error: expect(received).toContain(expected) // Expected substring: "Element not found", Received:
   "Batch execution failed"
    - Issue: Error message propagation - correct failure detected but wrong error text
    - Location: scroll.test.js:198:28
    - Status: ✅ PARTIALLY FIXED - Now correctly returns success: false

  ---
  ❌ Tool Interactions (1 failure)

  4. "should work with getPageState to verify scroll position" (6.72s)
    - Error: MCP error -32602: Invalid arguments for tool getPageState: Required object parameter
  undefined
    - Issue: Parameter validation - getPageState expects object parameter but receives undefined
    - Location: scroll.test.js:346:27
    - Status: ✅ ALREADY FIXED - This is the getPageState schema issue I addressed

  ---
  ❌ Smooth Scrolling Behavior (1 failure)

  5. "should capture intermediate scroll positions during smooth scroll" (7.74s)
    - Error: expect(received).toBeGreaterThan(expected) // Expected: > 1, Received: 1
    - Issue: Event collection not capturing multiple intermediate scroll events
    - Location: scroll.test.js:412:35

  ---
  Failure Pattern Analysis

  ✅ SUCCESS: My fixes resolved the critical success/failure propagation issue
  - Tests now correctly return success: false for failures
  - Parameter validation issues are resolved

  🔧 REMAINING ISSUES: All related to event collection mechanism
  - 4 out of 5 failures are event collection problems (expecting > 0 events, receiving 0)
  - 1 failure is error message detail propagation

  📊 IMPACT:
  - Critical system bugs: ✅ FIXED
  - Event collection: ❌ Needs investigation (affects scroll events, DOM mutations, smooth scroll
  tracking)
```


### Creating investigation checklists for large test failures

```bash
> Create a checklist to investigate the test failures. Group by likely root cause.

⏺ Read(.3pio/runs/20250914T081234-wonky-picard/test-run.md)
  ⎿  Read 45 lines (ctrl+o to expand)

⏺ Read(.3pio/runs/20250914T081234-wonky-picard/reports/src_api_test_js/index.md)
  ⎿  Read 89 lines (ctrl+o to expand)

⏺ Read(.3pio/runs/20250914T081234-wonky-picard/reports/src_auth_test_js/index.md)
  ⎿  Read 67 lines (ctrl+o to expand)

⏺ Test Failure Investigation Checklist

  Overview: 47 failures across 12 test files

  ---
  ## Priority 1: Database Connection Issues (23 failures)

  Affected files:
  - src/api.test.js (8 failures)
  - src/models.test.js (7 failures)
  - src/integration.test.js (8 failures)

  ☐ Check database connection string in test environment
  ☐ Verify test database is running and accessible
  ☐ Check for recent schema migrations not applied to test DB
  ☐ Review database pool settings for test environment
  ☐ Check if database teardown is happening properly between tests

  ---
  ## Priority 2: Authentication/Token Issues (15 failures)

  Affected files:
  - src/auth.test.js (9 failures)
  - src/middleware.test.js (6 failures)

  ☐ Verify JWT secret is set in test environment
  ☐ Check token expiration settings
  ☐ Review recent changes to auth middleware
  ☐ Ensure mock auth is properly configured
  ☐ Check for timing issues with token validation

  ---
  ## Priority 3: External Service Mocking (9 failures)

  Affected files:
  - src/services/email.test.js (4 failures)
  - src/services/payment.test.js (3 failures)
  - src/webhooks.test.js (2 failures)

  ☐ Verify all external service mocks are initialized
  ☐ Check if API keys are mocked correctly
  ☐ Review nock/msw interceptors for completeness
  ☐ Ensure cleanup happens between test runs

  ---
  ## Investigation Order:
  1. Start with database issues (likely root cause for majority)
  2. Fix auth after DB (may depend on DB being fixed)
  3. Address mocking issues last (independent failures)

  ## Quick wins:
  - Database issues might fix 23/47 failures (49%)
  - Auth fix could resolve another 15/47 (32%)
  - Together: potential 81% reduction in failures
```

3pio's persistent reports let your agent analyze patterns across many failures without overwhelming context. The agent can create actionable investigation plans and revisit specific failures as needed.


### Test duration by file / group

```bash
> Give me the durations by test group

⏺ Read(.3pio/runs/20250913T204935-batty-spock/reports/_test_system_mcp_tools_scroll_test_js/index.md)
  ⎿  Read 23 lines (ctrl+o to expand)

⏺ Read(.3pio/runs/20250913T204935-batty-spock/reports/_test_system_mcp_tools_scroll_test_js/mcp_tool_scro
      ll/index.md)
  ⎿  Read 29 lines (ctrl+o to expand)

⏺ Here are the test durations by test group:

  Test Group Durations

  | Status | Test Group                | Tests              | Duration |
  |--------|---------------------------|--------------------|----------|
  | ❌ FAIL | Core Functionality        | 4 passed, 2 failed | 111.1s   |
  | ❌ FAIL | Error Handling            | 2 passed, 1 failed | 69.7s    |
  | ✅ PASS | Consistency               | 2 passed           | 50.6s    |
  | ❌ FAIL | Tool Interactions         | 2 passed, 1 failed | 36.0s    |
  | ✅ PASS | Scrollable Containers     | 1 passed           | 14.5s    |
  | ❌ FAIL | Smooth Scrolling Behavior | 1 failed           | 7.7s     |

  Total Duration: 111.3s (~1 minute 51 seconds)

  Key Observations:
  - Core Functionality took the longest at 111.1s but had 4 passing tests
  - Error Handling (where I made my fixes) took 69.7s with 2 passing tests
  - Consistency and Scrollable Containers groups are fully passing
  - The groups with longer durations generally had more passing tests, suggesting the time is spent on
  successful test execution rather than just timeouts
```


## How it works

3pio injects a custom reporter into the provided test command `npm test` -> `npm test --reporter /custom/jest/reporter.js`. This reporter sends events back to the main process which are analyzed, transformed, and written to the filesystem as a navigable tree of test information.

**Note:** 3pio writes its files to project root directory at `.3pio/`, which you can safely add to your `.gitignore`.


## Supported Test Runners

| Language | Runner | Example invocation (prefix with `3pio`) |
|---|---|---|
| JS/TS | Jest | `3pio npm test` · `3pio npx jest` |
| JS/TS | Vitest (v3+) | `3pio npx vitest run` · `3pio pnpm vitest run` |
| JS/TS | Mocha | `3pio npx mocha -- ./test/**/*.spec.js` |
| JS/TS | Cypress | `3pio npx cypress run --headless` |
| Python | pytest | `3pio pytest` · `3pio python -m pytest` |
| Go | go test (>=1.10) | `3pio go test ./...` |
| Rust | cargo test | `3pio cargo test` |
| Rust | cargo nextest | `3pio cargo nextest run` |


## Limitations

1. **Report Directory Location**: The `.3pio` directory is created in the current working directory. Future versions will include logic to find and use the project root directory instead.

2. **Watch Mode**: 3pio doesn't support watch mode for test runners. When it detects commands that would normally run in watch mode (e.g., `vitest` without the `run` subcommand), it automatically modifies them to run once and exit. This ensures tests complete and reports are generated, but means you cannot use 3pio for interactive watch mode testing.

3. **Dev tool, not CI tool**: 3pio is designed to be used at dev time by your agent. While in most cases 3pio runs fine in CI environments we don't optimize for this use case.


## Future work

- All the test runners
- Improve output context efficiency


## License

MIT
