docs/architecture/test-runner-adapters.md, before:

# Test Runner Adapters

## Overview

Test runner adapters are specialized reporters that 3pio injects into test runners (Jest, Vitest, pytest) to capture test events and output. These adapters are embedded in the Go binary and extracted at runtime.

## Adapter Architecture

### Embedding and Extraction

1. **Development**: Adapters written in JavaScript (Jest/Vitest) or Python (pytest)
2. **Build Time**: Go's embed directive includes adapters in the binary
3. **Runtime**: Adapters extracted to temporary directory with IPC path injection
4. **Injection**: Test runner commands modified to include the adapter
5. **Cleanup**: Temporary files removed after test completion

### IPC Path Injection

IPC paths are injected directly into adapter code at runtime:
- Template markers in source: `/*__IPC_PATH__*/"WILL_BE_REPLACED"/*__IPC_PATH__*/` (JavaScript)
- Template markers in source: `#__IPC_PATH__#"WILL_BE_REPLACED"#__IPC_PATH__#` (Python)
- Each test run gets its own adapter instance in `.3pio/runs/[runID]/adapters/`
- Ensures 100% reliability in monorepos and complex process hierarchies
- Adapters are automatically cleaned up when the run directory is removed

## Test Runner Support

### Rust: Cargo Test (Native)

**Implementation**: Native JSON processing without external adapter
- No adapter file required - processes `cargo test --format json` output directly
- `CargoTestDefinition` in `internal/runner/definitions/cargo.go`
- Automatically adds `-Z unstable-options --format json --report-time` flags
- Requires `RUSTC_BOOTSTRAP=1` environment variable for JSON format
- Parses crate::module::test hierarchy from test names
- Tracks test state and groups by crate/module structure

**Special Considerations**:
- Uses Rust's unstable JSON output format (requires nightly features)
- Processes stdout directly in the orchestrator
- Supports nested module hierarchy with "::" separator
- Handles workspace projects with multiple crates
- Maps test failures to structured error information
- Tracks duration and execution statistics per test

**Detection Patterns**:
- `cargo test` commands
- `cargo +<toolchain> test` with Rust toolchain specification
- Full path cargo binaries with test subcommand

### Rust: Cargo Nextest (Native)

**Implementation**: Native libtest-json processing without external adapter
- No adapter file required - processes `cargo nextest --message-format libtest-json` output
- `NextestDefinition` in `internal/runner/definitions/nextest.go`
- Automatically adds `--message-format libtest-json` flag
- Requires `NEXTEST_EXPERIMENTAL_LIBTEST_JSON=1` environment variable
- Enhanced parallel execution and filtering capabilities over standard cargo test

**Special Considerations**:
- Uses libtest-json format (more structured than cargo test)
- Better handling of parallel test execution
- Supports advanced filtering and partitioning features
- Workspace-aware with package-level grouping
- Real-time test progress reporting

**Detection Patterns**:
- `cargo nextest` commands (with or without `run` subcommand)
- `cargo +<toolchain> nextest` with Rust toolchain specification
- Full path cargo binaries with nextest subcommand

### Go Test (Native)

**Implementation**: Native JSON processing without external adapter
- No adapter file required - processes `go test -json` output directly
- `GoTestDefinition` in `internal/runner/definitions/gotest.go`
- Automatically adds `-json` flag if not present
- Package information derived dynamically from test events
- Tracks test state for parallel test attribution
- Handles cached test results with CACH status

**Special Considerations**:
- Uses Go's built-in JSON output format (available since Go 1.10)
- Processes stdout directly in the orchestrator
- Supports subtests with "/" separator in names
- Handles parallel test output with pause/cont state tracking
- Detects cached packages and reports them separately
- No longer uses `go list` - packages discovered from test output

### Jest Adapter

**Implementation**: Reporter interface with lifecycle methods
- `onRunStart`: Setup before test run
- `onTestStart`: File beginning, start console capture
- `onTestCaseResult`: Individual test results
- `onTestResult`: File completion, stop console capture
- `onRunComplete`: Final cleanup

**Special Considerations**:
- testResult.console is always undefined (verified with Jest 29.x)
- Must patch both console methods AND stdout/stderr writers
- **NO default reporter included** - Clean, deduplicated output
- Reporter flag must come LAST in command line

### Vitest Adapter

**Implementation**: Reporter with V3 module hooks for parallel support
- `onInit`: Initialize and send collection start event
- `onPathsCollected`: Send collection complete with file count
- `onTestModuleCollected`: Send testFileStart when module queued (V3 hook, real-time)
- `onTestModuleEnd`: Send testFileResult and test cases (V3 hook, real-time)
- `sendTestCasesFromModule`: Recursively extract and send individual test case events
- `onTestFileStart`/`onTestFileResult`: Fallback for non-parallel mode
- `onFinished`: Final fallback processing and cleanup

**Special Considerations**:
- Uses V3 module hooks for real-time progress in parallel mode
- Module hooks (`onTestModule*`) work across worker processes
- **Default reporter INCLUDED** - Better UX with familiar Vitest output
- `vitest list` unreliable (runs in watch mode)
- Dynamic test discovery when files unknown upfront
- Sends individual test case events with status, duration, and errors

### pytest Adapter

**Implementation**: Plugin using pytest hooks
- `pytest_sessionstart`: Initialize before session
- `pytest_runtest_protocol`: Handle test execution
- `pytest_runtest_logreport`: Process test results
- `pytest_sessionfinish`: Final cleanup

**Special Considerations**:
- Uses plugin architecture, not reporter
- Captures output via capsys fixture
- Handles collection phase errors
- Supports parametrized tests

## IPC Event Protocol

All adapters communicate using JSON Lines format with group-based events:

### testGroupDiscovered
Signals that a group has been discovered in the test hierarchy:
```json
{
  "eventType": "testGroupDiscovered",
  "payload": {
    "groupName": "Button Component",
    "parentNames": ["src/components/Button.test.js", "UI Components"]
  }
}
```

### testGroupStart
Signals that a test group is beginning execution:
```json
{
  "eventType": "testGroupStart",
  "payload": {
    "groupName": "Math operations",
    "parentNames": ["src/math.test.js"]
  }
}
```

### testCase
Reports an individual test result with parent hierarchy:
```json
{
  "eventType": "testCase",
  "payload": {
    "testName": "should add numbers",
    "parentNames": ["src/math.test.js", "Math operations"],
    "status": "PASS",
    "duration": 0.023,
    "error": null,
    "stdout": "optional captured stdout",
    "stderr": "optional captured stderr"
  }
}
```

### testGroupResult
Indicates test group completion:
```json
{
  "eventType": "testGroupResult",
  "payload": {
    "groupName": "Math operations",
    "parentNames": ["src/math.test.js"],
    "status": "PASS",
    "duration": 1.23,
    "totals": {
      "passed": 10,
      "failed": 2,
      "skipped": 1
    }
  }
}
```

### testGroupError
Reports group-level errors that occur before individual tests can run (setup failures, compilation errors, etc.):
```json
{
  "eventType": "testGroupError",
  "payload": {
    "groupName": "Math operations",
    "parentNames": ["src/math.test.js"],
    "errorType": "SETUP_FAILURE",
    "duration": 856,
    "error": {
      "message": "No test mode selected, please selected either e2e mode with \"--tags e2e\" or integration mode with \"--tags integration\"",
      "phase": "setup"
    }
  }
}
```

**Error Types:**
- `SETUP_FAILURE`: Package/group failed before tests could run
- `COLLECTION_FAILURE`: Test discovery/collection failed
- `COMPILATION_FAILURE`: Code compilation/transpilation failed
- `IMPORT_FAILURE`: Module import/dependency errors
- `CONFIGURATION_FAILURE`: Invalid test configuration

### groupStdout / groupStderr
Captures console output at group level:
```json
{
  "eventType": "groupStdout",
  "payload": {
    "groupName": "Math operations",
    "parentNames": ["src/math.test.js"],
    "chunk": "Console log output\n"
  }
}
```

## Console Output Capture

### Capture Strategy

All adapters implement output capture to handle:
- Direct stdout/stderr writes that bypass test frameworks
- Console methods intercepted by frameworks
- Output from worker processes and threads
- Buffered output from parallel execution

### Implementation Pattern

1. Store original write functions
2. Replace with instrumented wrappers
3. Capture and forward chunks
4. Send IPC events with file context
5. Restore original functions

### Framework Differences

**Jest**:
- No default reporter → All output through 3pio
- Must capture at multiple levels
- Worker process architecture considerations
- Clean, minimal console output

**Vitest**:
- Default reporter included → Dual output
- Global capture with context switching
- Thread-based parallelization
- Users see familiar Vitest progress indicators

**pytest**:
- Plugin architecture → Different capture mechanism
- Uses capsys fixture
- Process-based parallelization with xdist

### Why Different Reporter Configurations?

The difference between Jest and Vitest reporter inclusion is **intentional and optimized** for each framework:

**Jest (No Default Reporter)**:
- Jest's default reporter can be verbose and duplicate information
- Removing it provides cleaner, more focused output
- 3pio becomes the single source of truth for test results
- Prevents confusing duplicate progress indicators

**Vitest (Includes Default Reporter)**:
- Vitest's reporter is more streamlined and user-friendly
- Users expect and rely on Vitest's real-time progress updates
- The dual output approach doesn't create confusion
- Better developer experience with familiar output format

## Writing New Adapters

### Step 1: Create the Adapter

Write adapter in the test runner's native language following the IPC event protocol:

#### JavaScript Adapter Pattern
```javascript
class ThreePioReporter {
  constructor(globalConfig, reporterOptions, reporterContext) {
    this.ipcPath = /*__IPC_PATH__*/"WILL_BE_REPLACED"/*__IPC_PATH__*/;
  }

  onTestStart(test) {
    // Send group discovery events for hierarchy
    // Send testGroupStart for file and nested groups
    // Start console capture
  }

  onTestCaseResult(test, testCaseResult) {
    // Individual test - send testCase with parentNames
  }

  onTestResult(test, testResult) {
    // Group complete - send testGroupResult
    // Stop console capture
  }
}
```

#### Python Adapter Pattern
```python
class ThreePioPytestPlugin:
    def __init__(self):
        self.ipc_path = os.environ.get('THREEPIO_IPC_PATH')

    def pytest_runtest_logreport(self, report):
        # Process test results
        # Send testCase events with parentNames hierarchy
        # Send testGroupResult for completed groups
```

### Step 2: Add to Go Binary

1. Place adapter in `internal/adapters/`
2. Add embed directive in `embedded.go`:
   ```go
   //go:embed newrunner.js
   var newRunnerAdapter string
   ```
3. Update `ExtractAdapter()` function

### Step 3: Create Runner Definition

In `internal/runner/definition.go`:
- Create definition struct implementing interface
- Add detection patterns
- Define command building logic
- Handle adapter injection

### Step 4: Register and Test

1. Register in Manager initialization
2. Create test fixtures in `tests/fixtures/`
3. Write comprehensive tests
4. Update documentation

## Development Best Practices

### Silent Operation
- Never write to stdout/stderr directly
- All communication through IPC
- All debug output written to `.3pio/debug.log`

### Error Resilience
- Wrap all IPC operations in try/catch
- Never crash the test runner
- Gracefully degrade if IPC unavailable

### Performance
- Don't buffer large amounts of data
- Send events immediately
- Clean up resources promptly

### Group Hierarchy
- Always include complete parentNames hierarchy in events
- Send testGroupDiscovered for all ancestor groups
- Handle worker processes correctly (Jest)
- Track context switching (Vitest)

## Debugging Adapters

### Manual Testing
```bash
# Build with adapter
make adapters && make build

# Test with sample project
./build/3pio npx [test-runner]

# Check IPC events
cat .3pio/ipc/*.jsonl | jq

# View debug logs
tail -f .3pio/debug.log
```

### Common Issues
- **No events**: Check IPC path injection
- **Missing output**: Verify capture patches
- **Wrong group hierarchy**: Check parentNames tracking
- **Adapter not found**: Ensure extraction succeeded

Commit message:

docs: audit and update for Mocha/Cypress support (architecture, adapters, debugging, open-source, integration test audit)

docs/architecture/test-runner-adapters.md, after:

# Test Runner Adapters

## Overview

Test runner adapters are specialized reporters that 3pio injects into test runners (Jest, Vitest, Mocha, Cypress, pytest) to capture test events and output. These adapters are embedded in the Go binary and extracted at runtime.

## Adapter Architecture

### Embedding and Extraction

1. **Development**: Adapters written in JavaScript (Jest/Vitest/Mocha/Cypress) or Python (pytest)
2. **Build Time**: Go's embed directive includes adapters in the binary
3. **Runtime**: Adapters extracted to temporary directory with IPC path injection
4. **Injection**: Test runner commands modified to include the adapter
5. **Cleanup**: Temporary files removed after test completion

### IPC Path Injection

IPC paths are injected directly into adapter code at runtime:
- Template markers in source: `/*__IPC_PATH__*/"WILL_BE_REPLACED"/*__IPC_PATH__*/` (JavaScript)
- Template markers in source: `#__IPC_PATH__#"WILL_BE_REPLACED"#__IPC_PATH__#` (Python)
- Each test run gets its own adapter instance in `.3pio/runs/[runID]/adapters/`
- Ensures 100% reliability in monorepos and complex process hierarchies
- Adapters are automatically cleaned up when the run directory is removed

## Test Runner Support

### Rust: Cargo Test (Native)

**Implementation**: Native JSON processing without external adapter
- No adapter file required - processes `cargo test --format json` output directly
- `CargoTestDefinition` in `internal/runner/definitions/cargo.go`
- Automatically adds `-Z unstable-options --format json --report-time` flags
- Requires `RUSTC_BOOTSTRAP=1` environment variable for JSON format
- Parses crate::module::test hierarchy from test names
- Tracks test state and groups by crate/module structure

**Special Considerations**:
- Uses Rust's unstable JSON output format (requires nightly features)
- Processes stdout directly in the orchestrator
- Supports nested module hierarchy with "::" separator
- Handles workspace projects with multiple crates
- Maps test failures to structured error information
- Tracks duration and execution statistics per test

**Detection Patterns**:
- `cargo test` commands
- `cargo +<toolchain> test` with Rust toolchain specification
- Full path cargo binaries with test subcommand

### Rust: Cargo Nextest (Native)

**Implementation**: Native libtest-json processing without external adapter
- No adapter file required - processes `cargo nextest --message-format libtest-json` output
- `NextestDefinition` in `internal/runner/definitions/nextest.go`
- Automatically adds `--message-format libtest-json` flag
- Requires `NEXTEST_EXPERIMENTAL_LIBTEST_JSON=1` environment variable
- Enhanced parallel execution and filtering capabilities over standard cargo test

**Special Considerations**:
- Uses libtest-json format (more structured than cargo test)
- Better handling of parallel test execution
- Supports advanced filtering and partitioning features
- Workspace-aware with package-level grouping
- Real-time test progress reporting

**Detection Patterns**:
- `cargo nextest` commands (with or without `run` subcommand)
- `cargo +<toolchain> nextest` with Rust toolchain specification
- Full path cargo binaries with nextest subcommand

### Go Test (Native)

**Implementation**: Native JSON processing without external adapter
- No adapter file required - processes `go test -json` output directly
- `GoTestDefinition` in `internal/runner/definitions/gotest.go`
- Automatically adds `-json` flag if not present
- Package information derived dynamically from test events
- Tracks test state for parallel test attribution
- Handles cached test results with CACH status

**Special Considerations**:
- Uses Go's built-in JSON output format (available since Go 1.10)
- Processes stdout directly in the orchestrator
- Supports subtests with "/" separator in names
- Handles parallel test output with pause/cont state tracking
- Detects cached packages and reports them separately
- No longer uses `go list` - packages discovered from test output

### Jest Adapter

**Implementation**: Reporter interface with lifecycle methods
- `onRunStart`: Setup before test run
- `onTestStart`: File beginning, start console capture
- `onTestCaseResult`: Individual test results
- `onTestResult`: File completion, stop console capture
- `onRunComplete`: Final cleanup

**Special Considerations**:
- testResult.console is always undefined (verified with Jest 29.x)
- Must patch both console methods AND stdout/stderr writers
- **NO default reporter included** - Clean, deduplicated output
- Reporter flag must come LAST in command line

### Vitest Adapter

**Implementation**: Reporter with V3 module hooks for parallel support
- `onInit`: Initialize and send collection start event
- `onPathsCollected`: Send collection complete with file count
- `onTestModuleCollected`: Send testFileStart when module queued (V3 hook, real-time)
- `onTestModuleEnd`: Send testFileResult and test cases (V3 hook, real-time)
- `sendTestCasesFromModule`: Recursively extract and send individual test case events
- `onTestFileStart`/`onTestFileResult`: Fallback for non-parallel mode
- `onFinished`: Final fallback processing and cleanup

**Special Considerations**:
- Uses V3 module hooks for real-time progress in parallel mode
- Module hooks (`onTestModule*`) work across worker processes
- **Default reporter INCLUDED** - Better UX with familiar Vitest output
- `vitest list` unreliable (runs in watch mode)
- Dynamic test discovery when files unknown upfront
- Sends individual test case events with status, duration, and errors

### pytest Adapter

**Implementation**: Plugin using pytest hooks
- `pytest_sessionstart`: Initialize before session
- `pytest_runtest_protocol`: Handle test execution
- `pytest_runtest_logreport`: Process test results
- `pytest_sessionfinish`: Final cleanup

**Special Considerations**:
- Uses plugin architecture, not reporter
- Captures output via capsys fixture
- Handles collection phase errors
- Supports parametrized tests

## IPC Event Protocol

All adapters communicate using JSON Lines format with group-based events:

### testGroupDiscovered
Signals that a group has been discovered in the test hierarchy:
```json
{
  "eventType": "testGroupDiscovered",
  "payload": {
    "groupName": "Button Component",
    "parentNames": ["src/components/Button.test.js", "UI Components"]
  }
}
```

### testGroupStart
Signals that a test group is beginning execution:
```json
{
  "eventType": "testGroupStart",
  "payload": {
    "groupName": "Math operations",
    "parentNames": ["src/math.test.js"]
  }
}
```

### testCase
Reports an individual test result with parent hierarchy:
```json
{
  "eventType": "testCase",
  "payload": {
    "testName": "should add numbers",
    "parentNames": ["src/math.test.js", "Math operations"],
    "status": "PASS",
    "duration": 0.023,
    "error": null,
    "stdout": "optional captured stdout",
    "stderr": "optional captured stderr"
  }
}
```

### testGroupResult
Indicates test group completion:
```json
{
  "eventType": "testGroupResult",
  "payload": {
    "groupName": "Math operations",
    "parentNames": ["src/math.test.js"],
    "status": "PASS",
    "duration": 1.23,
    "totals": {
      "passed": 10,
      "failed": 2,
      "skipped": 1
    }
  }
}
```

### testGroupError
Reports group-level errors that occur before individual tests can run (setup failures, compilation errors, etc.):
```json
{
  "eventType": "testGroupError",
  "payload": {
    "groupName": "Math operations",
    "parentNames": ["src/math.test.js"],
    "errorType": "SETUP_FAILURE",
    "duration": 856,
    "error": {
      "message": "No test mode selected, please selected either e2e mode with \"--tags e2e\" or integration mode with \"--tags integration\"",
      "phase": "setup"
    }
  }
}
```

**Error Types:**
- `SETUP_FAILURE`: Package/group failed before tests could run
- `COLLECTION_FAILURE`: Test discovery/collection failed
- `COMPILATION_FAILURE`: Code compilation/transpilation failed
- `IMPORT_FAILURE`: Module import/dependency errors
- `CONFIGURATION_FAILURE`: Invalid test configuration

### groupStdout / groupStderr
Captures console output at group level:
```json
{
  "eventType": "groupStdout",
  "payload": {
    "groupName": "Math operations",
    "parentNames": ["src/math.test.js"],
    "chunk": "Console log output\n"
  }
}
```

## Console Output Capture

### Capture Strategy

All adapters implement output capture to handle:
- Direct stdout/stderr writes that bypass test frameworks
- Console methods intercepted by frameworks
- Output from worker processes and threads
- Buffered output from parallel execution

### Implementation Pattern

1. Store original write functions
2. Replace with instrumented wrappers
3. Capture and forward chunks
4. Send IPC events with file context
5. Restore original functions

### Framework Differences

**Jest**:
- No default reporter → All output through 3pio
- Must capture at multiple levels
- Worker process architecture considerations
- Clean, minimal console output

**Vitest**:
- Default reporter included → Dual output
- Global capture with context switching
- Thread-based parallelization
- Users see familiar Vitest progress indicators

**pytest**:
- Plugin architecture → Different capture mechanism
- Uses capsys fixture
- Process-based parallelization with xdist

### Why Different Reporter Configurations?

The difference between Jest and Vitest reporter inclusion is **intentional and optimized** for each framework:

**Jest (No Default Reporter)**:
- Jest's default reporter can be verbose and duplicate information
- Removing it provides cleaner, more focused output
- 3pio becomes the single source of truth for test results
- Prevents confusing duplicate progress indicators

**Vitest (Includes Default Reporter)**:
- Vitest's reporter is more streamlined and user-friendly
- Users expect and rely on Vitest's real-time progress updates
- The dual output approach doesn't create confusion
- Better developer experience with familiar output format

## Writing New Adapters

### Step 1: Create the Adapter

Write adapter in the test runner's native language following the IPC event protocol:

#### JavaScript Adapter Pattern
```javascript
class ThreePioReporter {
  constructor(globalConfig, reporterOptions, reporterContext) {
    this.ipcPath = /*__IPC_PATH__*/"WILL_BE_REPLACED"/*__IPC_PATH__*/;
  }

  onTestStart(test) {
    // Send group discovery events for hierarchy
    // Send testGroupStart for file and nested groups
    // Start console capture
  }

  onTestCaseResult(test, testCaseResult) {
    // Individual test - send testCase with parentNames
  }

  onTestResult(test, testResult) {
    // Group complete - send testGroupResult
    // Stop console capture
  }
}
```

#### Python Adapter Pattern
```python
class ThreePioPytestPlugin:
    def __init__(self):
        self.ipc_path = os.environ.get('THREEPIO_IPC_PATH')

    def pytest_runtest_logreport(self, report):
        # Process test results
        # Send testCase events with parentNames hierarchy
        # Send testGroupResult for completed groups
```

### Step 2: Add to Go Binary

1. Place adapter in `internal/adapters/`
2. Add embed directive in `embedded.go`:
   ```go
   //go:embed newrunner.js
   var newRunnerAdapter string
   ```
3. Update `ExtractAdapter()` function

### Step 3: Create Runner Definition

In `internal/runner/definition.go`:
- Create definition struct implementing interface
- Add detection patterns
- Define command building logic
- Handle adapter injection

### Step 4: Register and Test

1. Register in Manager initialization
2. Create test fixtures in `tests/fixtures/`
3. Write comprehensive tests
4. Update documentation

## Development Best Practices

### Silent Operation
- Never write to stdout/stderr directly
- All communication through IPC
- All debug output written to `.3pio/debug.log`

### Error Resilience
- Wrap all IPC operations in try/catch
- Never crash the test runner
- Gracefully degrade if IPC unavailable

### Performance
- Don't buffer large amounts of data
- Send events immediately
- Clean up resources promptly

### Group Hierarchy
- Always include complete parentNames hierarchy in events
- Send testGroupDiscovered for all ancestor groups
- Handle worker processes correctly (Jest)
- Track context switching (Vitest)

## Debugging Adapters

### Manual Testing
```bash
# Build with adapter
make adapters && make build

# Test with sample project
./build/3pio npx [test-runner]

# Check IPC events
cat .3pio/ipc/*.jsonl | jq

# View debug logs
tail -f .3pio/debug.log
```

### Common Issues
- **No events**: Check IPC path injection
- **Missing output**: Verify capture patches
- **Wrong group hierarchy**: Check parentNames tracking
- **Adapter not found**: Ensure extraction succeeded
### Mocha Adapter

**Implementation**: Custom Mocha reporter using the Mocha runner API
- Listens to `start`, `suite`, `test`, `pass`, `fail`, `pending`, `end`
- Emits group discovery, start, testCase, and groupResult events
- Hierarchy: `[filePath] -> describe(...) -> it(...)`
- Minimal reporter: no stdout/stderr output, IPC events only

**Special Considerations**:
- Adapter injected via `--reporter <adapterPath>`
- Works with `npx mocha`, direct `mocha`, and package scripts
- Globs and patterns supported by Mocha CLI

### Cypress Adapter

**Implementation**: Custom Mocha reporter used by Cypress
- Cypress uses Mocha under the hood; reporter API is compatible
- Listens to the same events as Mocha and emits IPC events
- Supports `--spec` pattern selection
- Run in headless mode for automation (`--headless` recommended)

**Special Considerations**:
- Adapter injected via `--reporter <adapterPath>`
- Works with `npx cypress run` and package scripts
- First-time `npx cypress run` may trigger a binary verification/download
